---
layout: post
title: "Service"
comments: true
---

Japan’s customer service is often regarded as the best in the world.

At the heart of it lies omotenashi, a philosophy of selfless hospitality and proactive care.

Going further up the politeness ladder, there is keigo. Keigo is the Japanese system of honorific language used to show respect, politeness, and humility depending on the social context.

I have always regarded Japan’s customer service as the best in the world, even though it can also lend itself to inflexibility and occasional frustration.

But regardless of some annoyances, the customer almost always comes first. Well, I think the era of pristine Japanese customer service is on the brink of collapse. Why?

The smartphone.

Never before have I noticed—in Japan, mind you—so many retail, hospitality, and other service staff whipping out their phones to kill time or simply distract themselves.

This leads to longer wait times, misplaced orders, and a disruption of 和 (wa), the sense of harmony that underpins Japanese society.

Should this be a surprise?

I’ve been going to Japan for the past decade, and it’s only very recently that I’ve noticed a decline in one of the things that made Japan so fantastic.

Oh, and one other thing. There was something odd, sad, and exhausting about constantly being surrounded by people who seemed endlessly not present.

I’m talking about being in central Tokyo—an area with 14 million people—just riding the train and seeing everyone staring down at their tiny screens, unaware of what’s going on around them.

I know this isn’t new, but I feel more aware of it than on previous visits.

I’m starting to think being present has become a skill we’re slowly losing.
